# Black Friday and Cyber Monday: “Best Of Both Worlds”

The Greek God of trade- Hermes, stole a number of herd from Apollo and drove them back to Greece. Before retreating, he caught a tortoise, killed it and removed its entrails. Using the intestines from a cow stolen from Apollo and the hollow tortoise shell, he made the first lyre. When Apollo revolted, Hermes began to play his lyre. The sweet music enchanted Apollo, and he offered Hermes the cattle in exchange for the lyre. Apollo later became the grand master of the instrument, and it also became one of his symbols. Apollo’s presence of mind helped him make the most fitting trade.
Synonymous to this story, it is expedient for us to brace ourselves to make the best use of deals offered on the days starting on Black Friday and ending on Cyber Monday. In order to achieve this it is cardinal to discern the difference between the two buzzwords.

## When does Cyber Monday start, and when do the Black Friday deals end? 
In the year 2020, Black Friday "ended" on Friday, November 27, and Cyber Monday "began" on Monday, November 30, but different retailers are either beginning their Cyber Monday deals early or spanning their current deals into a Black Friday weekend. This is a part of the retailer’s strategy to boost sales during this unforeseen time.
Black Friday deals were (and still are) a great way to score major discounts on expensive tech like TVs, laptops, headphones, speakers, and smartphones. Early Cyber Monday deals, based on what we've seen so far, are more focalized on smaller appliances like vacuums, stand mixers, espresso machines, Fitbits and clothing - but you'll still find deals for more expensive fare like laptops, Chromebooks, 4K TVs and treadmills.

## So, what's the difference between the two sales events – and most importantly, on which day will you find the best deals?
Let’s start with Black Friday; traditionally, Black Friday is the Friday immediately after Thanksgiving when retailers begin the holiday shopping season. 
It’s stationed around retailers making such dramatic discounts that customers will try to break the doors down before the shop opens – although recent years have seen Black Friday morph into an online shopping phenomenon.
Online shopping is going to be even more important this year, as the pandemic means social distancing measures will be enforced in many stores, and buyers will be more reluctant to shop in person.
Apart from the dates, the conventional difference between Black Friday and Cyber Monday is that Black Friday deals can be found online and in physical stores, whereas Cyber Monday is purely dedicated to online discounts. People often want to avoid the crowds and take advantage of promotions from the comfort of their own homes. Cyber Monday is particularly suited to those who are visiting family over Thanksgiving and want to make the best of the holiday discounts without lugging the shopping home with them.
This year, with most people staying home for safety, retailers made virtually all of their best deals available online. That, combined with the month-long deal schedule, makes the difference between Black Friday and Cyber Monday more blurred.
Cyber Monday also typically sees discounts on smaller items that might get ignored during Black Friday. For example, if you're more interested in fashion than tech, some online retailers are expected to offer site wide discounts on Cyber Monday, meaning it's well worth waiting. 
Cyber Monday is also generally a good time to find deals on small appliances and white goods, so if you're looking for a new microwave, check when your favourite household store begins its Cyber Monday sale.

## How to make the most of Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals?
Much of this comes down to branding, as both sales events will have plenty of fantastic tech deals, whether you’re looking for a new laptop or a pair of swish noise-cancelling headphones.
The difference is that some tech will sell so well during Black Friday that it sells out before Cyber Monday, leaving you out of luck; or, some tech will sell at a decent discount during Black Friday only for retailers to slash the price down even further for Cyber Monday, hoping to clear out the rest of their stock.
So, If you see an implausible Black Friday deal that checks all your boxes, it’s recommended to go for it as products can sell out in a matter of minutes, and you can usually return the item if you see a better deal on Cyber Monday.
Unless you are attached to a very specific product, you'll likely find a deal on any tech you need whether you shop during extended Black Friday sales or early Cyber Monday deals.
